>> Scott Moss: All right, MongoDB.
Its basically the goal
to non-relational DB and
for me it just works so well.
Its like, its a given.
It's the first database
that I learned how to use.
It's not the the only that I used but
its just so easy.
Especially the tools that come with it.
So it's a non-relational document store.
So to compare that to
a relational database, and
I'm sure most of you have used Postgres or
SQL.
It's not relational, so basically
what that means is it doesn't really
care about how data relates to each other.
It's basically just storing JSON
in a blob like here you go.
In Postgres you can store a JSON now.
So imagine it like, the whole database
is like that, you could just store JSON.
So that might seem scary, because it is,
because you can do that,
that doesn't mean you should do that.
That's just what Mongo allows you to do,
is just throw this data in here,
and just be free.
But that doesn't mean you should do it.
I highly recommend not doing that,
and we'll talk about that later.
But it does make it easy to get
started because it is like that and
you don't have to define different
lists of columns and things like that.
You can just throw JSON in your database.
It is open source and it's backed
by the company that created it,
the MongoDB company, or
whatever their name is.
But yeah, they're called MongoDB,
they're like a public company and
they have tons of products.
So it's not going there anytime soon like
other databases that have come and go.
So it's gonna be here for a while.
Like I said,
as far as non-relational databases go,
it's definitely the biggest one.
And I don't think it's gonna
go anywhere any time soon.
Tons of hosting solutions,
I talked about one earlier.
MLAB is one.
Compass is another one.
The people who created MongoDB,
Atlas, is another one.
And there's more popping up every day.
I'm sure Atlas is probably gonna buy
them all, but they're popping up.
So yeah, you have tons of solutions
whether if you're on AWS,
if you're on DigitalOcean, if you're on,
wherever you're hosting your stuff,
there's going to be options for
you to get some cloud hosting for MongoDB.
If not, it's open source,
you can host it yourself.
If you want to manage it, your own
replica sets and do all that stuff,
you can totally do it.
It's open source.
Everything is there.
>> Scott Moss: One of my favorite things
about MongoDB that we're gonna be using in
this course is the ORM, or
ODM is what they call it.
So the object relational mapper or
their object data modeler,
or object data mapper,
whatever that stands for.
But it's basically the JavaScript
representation of how we
interact with the models in the database.
If you have an orm for SQL or postgres,
this is the equivalent of that but
in mongo and it's called Mongoose, or
at least that's the one
that we're gonna be using.
There's tons of them, but
that's the one that we're going to
use it because it's the best one.
And it's so good that a lot of
databases actually copy its API,
like I've seen so
many database copy the API of Mongoose,
like this is really cool we're gonna
copy this and it's really that good.
So I like it.